 
Paperless Payday Loan - Points To Consider With A No Fax Payday Loan


356


Paperless payday loans subtract the paperwork hassle from the application process. But, you still must meet the payday loan company’s requirements to be approved. They may also delay your approval if your information has to be verified by hand. A lender with good customer support will ensure a quick approval.

No Paperwork Hassle

The greatest bonus with a paperless payday loan is that you don’t have to worry about paperwork. No searching for bank records, past bills, or ...







Paperless payday loans subtract the paperwork hassle from the application process. But, you still must meet the payday loan company’s requirements to be approved. They may also delay your approval if your information has to be verified by hand. A lender with good customer support will ensure a quick approval.

No Paperwork Hassle

The greatest bonus with a paperless payday loan is that you don’t have to worry about paperwork. No searching for bank records, past bills, or pay check stubs. No rushing out to your local copy center to fax records. You can complete the entire process online at any time.

Once your information is submitted over a secure connection, your payday loan lender will verify the information through their database. You can be approved for a cash advance in less than an hour.

Must Still Meet Requirements

Even with the convenience of a no fax payday loan, you still need to meet the requirements for a loan. While there is no credit check, you will usually need to have at least $1000 in monthly income, which can include a job or social security check. You must also have been employed at your current job for at least 60 days, sometimes longer.

Additional requirements include being at least 18 years old, providing correct contact information, and having an open checking account. Some lenders also require no NSF checks and at least a $100 balance in your checking account.

Longer Process Time

While most paperless payday loans are speedy, there can be delays in the process. Most often this occurs when there are errors in your application, usually misspelling a word or transposing numbers. When this occurs, the computer rejects the application and a person has to verify the information.

To avoid these delays, double check your application before submitting it. You may also find that faxing documents will save you time.

When choosing your payday loan lender, make sure that you are getting the best service and rates. Look for lenders that offer customer support through email or phone calls. This way, if there is a problem, you can be assured that it will be handled quickly.


