 
Refinance Home Loan - What You Must Know Today


354


Many banks compete to give you a refinance on your home loan. Some of the popular web sites will give you multiple quotes from different lenders. However, you need to be very careful about the home loan you choose. Since the prices of real estate have sky rocketed, there are many refinance loans you need to be very careful about. One category of such loans is the "Interest only loans". Instead people should simply stick with a 30 year of a 15 year mortgage and pay off the loa...



refinance loan, refinance mortgage



Many banks compete to give you a refinance on your home loan. Some of the popular web sites will give you multiple quotes from different lenders. However, you need to be very careful about the home loan you choose. Since the prices of real estate have sky rocketed, there are many refinance loans you need to be very careful about. One category of such loans is the "Interest only loans". Instead people should simply stick with a 30 year of a 15 year mortgage and pay off the loan. The choice among a 15 year loan and a 30 year loan depends on the individual. However, I recommend a 30 year loan. The monthly payment on a 30 year loan is less compared to a 15 year loan. This said, there might be a phase in your life when you are not financial stable (medical bills or not having a job). In such cases, dealing with a lower payment is much better than defaulting on your payments. My advise will be to take a 30 year refinance home loan and in-between when you have ample cash left on the table, you can make some extra payments also called as principal payment towards your loan. In short, 30 year mortgage loans are a better choice.

Below listed are some of the golden rules while considering refinancing of your home

1. If your new offer is at least 2% points lower than your current one, it makes sense to refinance your loan. The 2% spread is essential to cover your costs and time involved in the refinance process.

2. Ask yourself a simple question? How long do you intend to stay in your home? If you intend to stay for less than 5 years, a refinance may or may not make sense. Your numbers will give you a complete picture. 

Additionally if you decide to purchase a new car, you can refinance your home and roll up the car purchase up in the new mortgage. This is the best way to spread the cost of your car over the life of your loan and avoid a high interest car loan with the tax advantages you get from your mortgage deductions.


