 
Payday Loans And Credit Report


370


The question of payday loans affecting the credit position and affecting the credit report and vice versa often arises in the minds of persons contemplating taking payday loans. It may be noted in this regard that neither will payday loan taking be affected by credit position nor will the borrowing of such loans affect the credit rating in all normal cases at present. However, there may be some instances whereby the two may cause an effect on each other.

Effect of payday l...



payday loans,cash advances,online payday loan



The question of payday loans affecting the credit position and affecting the credit report and vice versa often arises in the minds of persons contemplating taking payday loans. It may be noted in this regard that neither will payday loan taking be affected by credit position nor will the borrowing of such loans affect the credit rating in all normal cases at present. However, there may be some instances whereby the two may cause an effect on each other.

Effect of payday loans and credit reports on one another

It may be that the payday lender is a member of the credit bureau. He might willfully choose to report information about you and your payday loan transactions to the credit bureau. Then the information will be considered, processed and attached to your credit file. Thus your credit rating will be affected. Many a lender, however, does report about your payday loan transaction to the credit bureau. They do so as this proves as a security against loan default. In such case you must pay off the loan in time and also need to make sure that he also reports the payment as soon as you have paid off the loan so that no negative indications are there in the credit report. This may then also act as a measure towards rebuilding your credit rating.

In order to secure a payday loan credit rating has not been known to produce any effect- positive or negative. Bad credit rating has generally not had any detrimental effect on your payday loan prospects. Bankruptcy records, bounced check and charge offs- causatives of credit problems have never hampered chances of getting a payday loans. However, your bankruptcy, if any, must be discharged for a minimum of three months to a year (as per the lender’s policy). The payday loan aspirants who are presently in the state of bankruptcy are also barred from securing a payday loan.

No credit checks are conducted while considering for granting of payday loans and bad credit has also by and large not been known to affect payday loans. However, despite this a negative rating in the credit report might make it difficult to secure some loan in the future.


