 
Payday Advance


502


Payday Advance offers Secure payday cash advance, the fastest and  easiest ways to get Advance cash. Call 1-877-262-CASH for easy payday loans.



Payday Advance, Cash Advance, Payday Loans, Check into Cash, Payday Cash Advance.



What Is a payday advance?

A payday advance is a very short-term loan. This is a cash advance that has to be repaid by the next payday from the day the payday advance has been deposited into your account. This makes the duration of a payday advance a maximum of three weeks, and is the easiest way to get some fast cash into your bank account or pocket.

Who is eligible to receive a payday advance?

If you want to apply for a payday advance, you must be an American citizen with a valid checking account in the United States. You will also need to have a steady job drawing a regular salary for the past six months. Additionally, you will have to be at least 18 years of age to receive a payday advance. 

What is the process to access a payday advance?

Securing a payday cash advance is one of the fastest and the easiest ways to get cash into your pocket. The procedure is simple, and there is no security or credit check like the other financial institutions require. With Check Into Cash Payday Advance Centers, you can collect the cash you need to tide you over until your next payday.

At the time of this writing, Check Into Cash, Inc. operates more than 1,250 centers nationwide with more to come. Most of their cash advance stores are open from 10 am to 6 pm Monday through Friday, and Saturday from 10 am to 3 pm.

Some companies use online software to instantly contact your bank and verify that your salary has been deposited on time for the past few months before they transfer the payday advance to your checking account. This procedure takes one working day.  In order to get the payday advance into your checking account within 24 hours, you will need to apply for the payday advance Monday through Thursday.  If you apply on a Friday, you most likely won’t receive the payday advance until Monday, as Saturday and Sunday are "non-business" days.

The basic advantage with Check Into Cash is that you do not have to wait for the cash to be deposited into your account -- the process is more or less instant and you get your (post dated?  If it is post-dated, how can they cash it instantly) post-dated check cashed immediately over the counter. Just ensure the cash is in the bank by the next payday -– you never know when you will need another payday advance.

So if you need some money to help alleviatea cash crunchwalk into any Check Into Cash Payday Advance Center location.  Bring your latest bank statement (just to prove you are getting a salary), some form of photo ID,  and a post-dated check. You will get cash in your hands within a matter of minutes. Nothing could be more convenient.

Still need more information? Just pick up the phone and call 1-877-262-CASH for any help you might need.

This Article is Originally Published here: Payday Cash Advance(http://www.checkintocash.biz/) & Fast loans online.


