 
Payday Loans Fund Middle Class Cash Flow


540


Payday loans are no longer the exclusive province of the impoverished blue collars. The middle classes are discovering that payday loans can keep them solvent, too.



payday loan, cash advance, loan till payday, quick cash loan



Payday loan companies offer fast loans without credit bureau checking or reporting.  They offer confidentiality, convenience and speed and this is now being picked up by the middle classes. They are turning in increasing numbers to payday loan companies to fund unexpected cash flow crises which they need addressed quickly and discretely.

At least one payday loan company recently reported its clientele was made up of 30 percent middle class consumers.  These consumers, with excellent credit, now choose a payday loan to protect their good credit ratings. With one late credit card payment, credit card companies may increase the APR up to a crippling 30 percent or even higher! When this is reported to the credit agencies, the credit score declines almost at once. Then, when the information is shared among all the other credit agencies and thence to all the other credit card companies, they too raise the APR and minimum payments to rates almost as high.  Avoiding that one missed payment with a payday loan begins to look cheap.

Well-informed middle class consumers with gleaming credit scores understand the critical need to avoid that nightmare by never making even one late credit card payment.

Consider this middle class couple that might just live near you. They've always worked hard and kept up payments on their credit cards. They never even had to think about a payday loan for anything. Now, they just signed off on a new mortgage refinance loan with their bank. They have an excellent credit score but they need the new loan to finance their kids' education. With interest rates still low, it's time to cash in some hard-won home equity and pay off those credit cards as well.

The bank's mortgage loan officer advised them not to take any credit advances or activate any new accounts or do anything that could cause an additional credit check for the next 60 days while the loan goes through. That might lower their credit rating, and then they might not get the loan or the interest rate they need. That, in turn, might mean less cash back to the tune of tens or even hundreds of thousands dollars. 

Our couple's next Visa payment is due on the 26th, but neither of them gets paid until the 30th and they don't have the money sitting in their account. The payment is less than $300, and they only need it for a week. If they miss the payment date, ALL their credit card interest rates could easily skyrocket. If they have ten credit card accounts and make just one late payment for their very first time ever, they may suddenly see all ten accounts go to default level interest and minimum payment levels. Fear strikes as they leave the bank. 

For the first time, they consider a payday loan. They easily find a payday loan site on Google: they don't even have to go to that awful payday loan shop down the street. A confidential payday loan could make that payment tomorrow. Paying $25 to $100 dollars in interest is better than losing $10K to $100k!  And, no-credit-check payday loans are not reported to credit agencies.  Sometimes privacy and timeliness are worth more. 

The middle class couple have just worked the system, and it pays.


