 
Payday Loan Company - Compare Payday Loan Companies To Get The Lowest Rate


357


Payday loan companies vary in the rates they charge customers. You can find low rates by comparing the offers of payday loan companies. The annual percentage rate (APR) is an easy tool to find who has the best deal. You also want to take a look at payment plans to make sure you don’t get taken in by late fees.

Look For The APR

The APR is the cost of the cash advance for a year. Fortunately, the majority of people pay off their payday loan is less than 30 days so they do...



payday loan, cash advance



Payday loan companies vary in the rates they charge customers. You can find low rates by comparing the offers of payday loan companies. The annual percentage rate (APR) is an easy tool to find who has the best deal. You also want to take a look at payment plans to make sure you don’t get taken in by late fees.

Look For The APR

The APR is the cost of the cash advance for a year. Fortunately, the majority of people pay off their payday loan is less than 30 days so they don’t pay such high fees. But by comparing the APR of several lenders, you can find the best deal.

Most often the APR will be listed in the ‘FAQ’ or ‘How It Works’ section of an online payday company. If you can’t find it, simply email the company with a request. By taking a few minutes to compare rates, you can save a few dollars.

Finance Fees

The actual cost of your loan will on average be about $15 for every $100 you borrow. A payday loan company charges the same rate to everyone since there are no credit checks. In the company’s eyes, everyone has the same credit background. The only variable is your income level, which will determine in part how much you can borrow.

Some online payday companies also offer a reduced finance fee for first time borrowers. You will want to make sure they have a competitive rate to begin with, but it is certainly worth checking out.

Payment Plans

One way payday loan companies can get you is by delaying payments. They might just debit the finance charge or a small part of your principal from your checking account. While the small charge may seem nice, you are actually adding on more financing fees for the time delay.

When you apply for a cash advance, make sure you opt for the full payment on the day you get paid. Some lenders will automatically default to this plan; others will require you to call or fax your request to the company. You can always change your mind later on.


