 
Personal Loans For Self Employed Applicants


464


Many people are attracted to the benefits of self-employment, from setting your own hours and being your own boss to having control over the development of your business and career. One of the most daunting aspects of self-employment is finding credit.



loans, personal loans, self employed, credit, personal, secured, secure, deals, offers, rates, interest



Many people are attracted to the benefits of self-employment, from setting your own hours and being your own boss to having control over the development of your business and career. The control over your lifestyle and work is a good reward for the risks involved in setting out on your own. But there are definite challenges involved also. One of the most daunting aspects of self-employment is finding credit. Lenders are often wary of lending to someone who is self employed, particularly if they are new to it and cannot provide proof of steady income.  

However, as the character of the UK economy continues to change, and lifelong employment from a single company becomes ever more rare, banks and other lenders are becoming increasingly willing to lend to the self-employed. In fact, now, a self employed person is just as likely to get approval for a mortgage or other loan as someone in more traditional employment. Improvements in credit checks, which allow lenders to see how you cope with debt in general, as well as other changes in lending practices mean that borrowing for the self employed is now easier and faster. 

<b>Your Credit Score</b>

Today, lenders can make immediate decisions on whether or not to lend, based exclusively on your credit score. Credit reports are becoming more important than proofs of income, and a self employed person who pays all bills and monthly payments on other loans on time, will have every chance of obtaining a loan. These same credit reports are what allow banks to make rapid decisions for lending to traditionally employed applicants also. 

As self employment increases in popularity, lenders are beginning to compete for a market share in this increasingly lucrative market. The terms and rates available are pretty much the same as for other loans and definitely far better than what they used to be. In fact, if you have borrowed as a self-employed worker in the past, now may be the time to refinance such loans with better rates and terms. 

<b>Secured or Unsecured Loan</b>

Another issue to consider is whether you want a secured or unsecured loan. Secured loans generally offer better rates and are secured over your home or automobile usually. However, if you are unable to repay the loan, the security is used instead. Now that unsecured loans are becoming easier to obtain, you should perhaps consider this option, particularly if the loan is being used for business purposes as it means you home or car will be less at risk from repossession.

The bottom line is that today, the self-employed have more options than ever before so don’t let this become something that discourages you from seeking credit or makes you accept less than ideal terms or rates.


