 
Personal Loans, And How Cash Flows Like Information In 2006


545


We take a dynamic approach to our lives, but it’s rare that this dynamism extends to our personal finances. Perhaps it’s the nature of the beast but, at least in the UK, personal finance is a topic that is off limits in conversation and pushed to the back of the closet whenever possible. It is almost a taboo.

And it shouldn’t be this way. We live in a financial world, commercialism rules and free markets dominate global finance. We are a generation defined by our relations...



Personal Loans, loan, unsecured loan, short term loan, personal finance, Moneynet, moneynet.co.uk



We take a dynamic approach to our lives, but it’s rare that this dynamism extends to our personal finances. Perhaps it’s the nature of the beast but, at least in the UK, personal finance is a topic that is off limits in conversation and pushed to the back of the closet whenever possible. It is almost a taboo.

And it shouldn’t be this way. We live in a financial world, commercialism rules and free markets dominate global finance. We are a generation defined by our relationship to money – so why do we then get so embarrassed when talk of money gets closer to home?

Fortunately, this trend can only improve given that allied with our adoption of finance as our god we have also embraced technology and, along with it, the internet. Banking has never looked back.

Internet banking had a rocky start, but it has now been widely adopted and with consumer confidence has come increased usability and an explosion in the range of, and accessibility to, financial services of all kinds and not just personal loan choices. 

Often the only way to keep track of all the choice available to us is to use a financial database site dedicated to providing relevant, up to date information on new and updated personal finance packages. Moneynet personal finance is one such site, and even a cursory glance around its pages show there is a vast range of choice and some surprising offers available.

Naturally you will want to be sure of the legitimacy of a provider that catches your eye – this is cash money we are talking about after all! – and it’s well worth investigating their reputation with the aid of our old friend Google. Obviously, with high street names such as Barclays Bank this stage could be skipped, and it’s worth bearing in mind that there are certain personal loans that can only be provided by a large, blue-chip company because of the risk involved. However there are almost as many types of personal loan as there are providers.

Gaining popularity are a new breed of short-term loans, with fixed rates depending on the quantity of cash borrowed. Once the preserve of the seriously hard up, short term personal loans are now reaching into society (particularly in heavily consumer based societies such as the UK) to extents barely considered possible even five years ago. As people try to maintain cash fluidity in the face of consumer culture, concepts like the Payday Loan are presenting attractive financial options to an emerging, finance savvy generation.

I wonder if one day they will be looking back at our generation and wonder why we were all so uptight about money talk. After all: if you don’t talk about it, how do you know you’ve got all the facts?


Disclaimer:

All information contained in this article is for general information purpose only and should not be construed as advice under the financial Services act 1986. You are strongly advised to take appropriate professional and legal advice before entering into any binding contracts.

Useful resources:

Personal finance - loans - Moneynet ( http://www.moneynet.co.uk/loans/index.shtml )

Barclays Bank ( http://www.barclayloanapplication.co.uk/landing.html )

My Payday Loan ( http://www.mypaydayloan.co.uk )


