 
Personal Bad Credit Home Loan


447


Read on to find out what is a personal bad credit home loan and how can one fulfil his dreams despite bad credits.



debt consolidation loan, personal loan, any purpose loan



What is a home loan?

Home loan refers to the funds the home buyer borrows from a bank or a home finance institution to purchase a property, generally secured by a registered mortgage to the bank over the property being purchased.

Personal bad credit home loan – ccj, loan defaults or otherwise!

County Court Judgement(CCJ), payment defaults on loans or credit card can cause adverse credit scores and affect your credit report. You may be turned down on any kind of financial help as you are considered a risky case. Although bad credits are risky, not all lenders consider it so. Personal bad credit home loan, offers you the well deserved solace to cater to your finances in times of despair. Don’t hold back your dreams due to adverse credit situation as personal bad credit home loan helps you.

It is very important for new borrowers to be familiar with certain commonly used jargon in the context of personal bad credit home loans. This will ensure that borrowers do not sign into something they are unfamiliar with or have an idea about. Make sure you’re familiar with these terms before you start scouting for a suitable uk personal bad credit home loan product for your needs.

Principal: The total amount of debt, excluding interest and late charges, remaining on a loan. 

Refinance: Paying off an existing loan with the proceeds from a new loan. 

Floating rate loan: The interest rate on these loans fluctuates periodically in response to changing market conditions. As the interest rate fluctuates, your EMI repayment will be adjusted up or down.

Advanced EMI: The EMI payments in the form of post-dated cheques, paid out in advance at the time of disbursement of loan.

LTV/LCR: LTV is an acronym for the loan –to-value ratio while LCR stands for the loan-to-cost ratio. They are terms used by various lenders to determine the loan amount that a person is eligible for on the total cost of the property.

Appraisal: A written analysis of the estimated value of a property prepared by a qualified appraiser.
 
Prepayment: Repaying the loan before the tenure of the loan.

Penalties: Numerous penalties like prepayment penalty, late payment fees, cheque bounce penalty-the fines are plenty. Read the fine prints on the loan documents to know all the fees and penalties.

Sales deed: The sale deed transfers the ownership of the property in exchange for a price paid or considered. This document is required to be registered.

Be careful about your personal bad credit home loan terms and conditions, read it thoroughly before signing on the agreement. Reach out to experts before you make any wrong decisions, consider experts’ advice.


