 
Refinance Car Loan – How To Benefit From An Auto Loan Refinancing


373


Although auto loan refinancing is a great way to lower car payments and save money, few people consider this option. Car buyers refinance their auto loans for several reasons. Is the current interest rate or APR high? Maybe you accepted a bad car loan because of a dealership's scam. Whatever the reason, refinancing an auto loan is perfect for lowering payments and paying off the car sooner.

How Auto Loan Refi's Work

Auto loan refinancing is similar to refinancing a home...



auto loan refinance, car loan refinance



Although auto loan refinancing is a great way to lower car payments and save money, few people consider this option. Car buyers refinance their auto loans for several reasons. Is the current interest rate or APR high? Maybe you accepted a bad car loan because of a dealership's scam. Whatever the reason, refinancing an auto loan is perfect for lowering payments and paying off the car sooner.

How Auto Loan Refi's Work

Auto loan refinancing is similar to refinancing a home loan. In a nutshell, automobile owners apply for a new auto loan to replace the existing. The new lender will payoff the old loan, and you begin making monthly payments to them. The concept and process is very simple. Yet, few people take advantage of auto loan refinancing.

Some auto loan buyers are unaware of auto loan refinancing. However, if bad credit resulted in a high interest rate, it may be possible to lower that rate without extending the loan term. The money you save can be used to payoff credit cards or build a cash reserve.

Choosing a Refinance Car Loan Lender

Many auto loan lenders offer refinancing. However, if choosing to refinance for a lower rate, you are required to apply with a new lender. Existing auto lenders are unable to refinance the auto loan. Finding a new lender is simple. To begin, you may contact your credit union or bank and request information on auto loans. Some may even offer a no-obligation quote.

Next, complete an online quote request with an online auto loan broker. This is one of the easiest methods for locating a reputable auto loan lender. Besides, brokers will provide you with up to three different offers. If refinancing to get the lowest possible rate, multiple offers is a huge plus because they allow quick and easy loan comparisons.

Auto Loan Refinancing Requirements

Before applying for a new loan, vehicles must qualify for a refinancing. In order to refinance a car loan, you must owe more than $7500. Secondly, the name on the auto loan refinancing application must be the same as the name on the original auto loan. Most importantly, for an auto loan refi approval, the amount owed on the car cannot exceed the value.


