 
Payday Loans With Waived Fees


420


A payday loan is the fastest and most convenient answer to solve an emergency cash gap between paydays. It will give a short-term solution to financial problems such as unexpected plumbing repairs, suddenly increased utility bills, and an expensive school project of a child.

To browse the Internet and find a payday loan that will best meet his specific needs, a person may find a long list of payday loan sites. He will also encounter several variations, such as “instant pay...



Payday Loans, Cash Advance



A payday loan is the fastest and most convenient answer to solve an emergency cash gap between paydays. It will give a short-term solution to financial problems such as unexpected plumbing repairs, suddenly increased utility bills, and an expensive school project of a child.

To browse the Internet and find a payday loan that will best meet his specific needs, a person may find a long list of payday loan sites. He will also encounter several variations, such as “instant pay day loans”, “same-day payday loans”, “fax-less payday loans”, “paperless payday loans”, “cash advance loans”, and “free payday loans”. The last of these, “free payday loans” is actually a payday loan with waived fees.

Free payday loans must not be misunderstood as loans given free without the borrower bothering to pay them on the due date. These are still loans after all. That is, the borrower needs to pay the full amount of his “free payday loan” plus the agreed interest. It is only described as “free” because the lender waives the service fee. There is also one important condition that must be met so that the borrower will not be charged with the service fee: that the loaned amount be paid in full on the due date. Otherwise, the lender will charge the fees.

To obtain a payday loan with waived fees, a potential borrower will follow the same steps done when acquiring a regular payday loan. He will fill up the online application form found at the website of the lender. He will provide accurate data, particularly about his employment, his checking account, and his contact information. One personnel of the lender will verify the information given, and if there are no inconsistencies, this personnel will contact the borrower or client by phone or by email.

Then, when the loan application is approved, the lender will deposit the loaned amount into the client’s checking account, usually overnight. Thus, the client may use the money he needs early the next day. The client, in turn, will also issue a post-dated check for the full loaned amount and the interest. Even though the service fees are waived, the lender will still not perform any credit checks, nor demand any collateral. This allows a person with poor credit to still avail of the payday loan with waived fees.

Since the fees are waived only when the loaned amount is paid in full, clients are advised by lenders to choose loaned amounts that can be likely paid on the coming payday.


