 
Refinancing Your Loan


502


Refinancing your home or property is a big decision that could drastically affect your financial future, for the good or the bad, depending on how smart you go about the process. Take the time to explore all of the different refinancing options you have available to you. Many loan agents offer you refinancing deals that seem too good to be true, and while most of them seem to have your best interests at heart, do try to keep in mind that they are not paid unless they approve ...







Refinancing your home or property is a big decision that could drastically affect your financial future, for the good or the bad, depending on how smart you go about the process. Take the time to explore all of the different refinancing options you have available to you. Many loan agents offer you refinancing deals that seem too good to be true, and while most of them seem to have your best interests at heart, do try to keep in mind that they are not paid unless they approve you for a loan--and you take it. Refinancing your mortgage can lower your monthly payments, lower the amount of interest you pay on your loan, or even shorten the term of your mortgage without having to pay a penalty for early mortgage pay off.
 
Refinancing a mortgage usually involves allowing a loan company to pay off your original home loan in return for you signing a loan contract with them. Most times, the second loan is more beneficial to the mortgagee, especially for that present time. 
 
There are a couple of things you want to consider when trying to decide whether or not to refinance your home loan. First off, a lender usually charges fees on a point system; the points on your mortgage can range anywhere from zero points to four, depending on the credit worthiness of the borrower, and the type of lender you are using. Some lenders may offer a much lower interest rate with a higher number of points, while others may offer a higher interest rate and only zero to one point involved. Points are fees that are equal to one percent of the face value of the loan. A $200,000 loan with three points would cost the borrower $6,000 up front. A lower number of discount points may cause the loan to have a higher interest rate than the loan you are thinking of refinancing, perhaps causing your loan to cost you more in the end.
 
Of course, when thinking of refinancing, you are going to want to make sure that it will be in your benefit! The penalty costs of paying off your loan or mortgage early, the cost of appraising your home, related attorney costs, settlement fees, and closing costs are all amounts that should be taken into consideration when one is refinancing. As far as your current loan is concerned, these are all costs that, more often than not, have already been taken care of and you could be making things worse for yourself by taking these things on again, especially if your reason for refinancing is a rather tight financial situation.
 
The mistake not to make is to refinance to save your mortgage, to keep a bank or lender from foreclosing on your property. While sometimes situations like this are inescapable, borrowers who attempt to refinance their properties and homes under conditions such as this often end up essentially paying more than they were, saving their property and possibly harming their credit in the process.


