 
Refinance Home Equity Line Of Credit – Benefits Of Refinancing Home Equity Line Of Credit


369


Refinancing an existing home equity line of credit can save you money on interest charges. It will also help you establish a payment plan to help you get out of debt sooner. Another benefit to refinancing is that you can get better terms, avoiding extra fees associated with a line of credit.

Get Better Rates And Terms

Getting better rates and terms on your home equity line of credit is one of the chief benefits of refinancing. With a line of credit, you have a couple of...



home equity refinance



Refinancing an existing home equity line of credit can save you money on interest charges. It will also help you establish a payment plan to help you get out of debt sooner. Another benefit to refinancing is that you can get better terms, avoiding extra fees associated with a line of credit.

Get Better Rates And Terms

Getting better rates and terms on your home equity line of credit is one of the chief benefits of refinancing. With a line of credit, you have a couple of refinancing options. You can decide to refinance both your mortgage and line of credit. Overall this will provide you with a low rate, but don’t trade in your low rate first mortgage for a more expensive refinance home loan.

The other option is to just refinance your line of credit with a second mortgage. A second mortgage can offer lower rates, either fixed or adjustable.

Establish A Payment Plan

Refinancing a line of credit will help you establish a payment plan. Before you apply for refinancing, calculate how much you can afford in a monthly payment. This payment amount will give you an idea of what terms to choose.

Just remember that your interest charges will be smaller than what you are currently paying. Also, the shorter the loan, typically the lower the rates are.

Find Better Terms

Tired of paying fees for such things as having a below minimum balance with your line of credit? Then refinance for better terms. Most refi mortgages don’t have annual fees. While you will have to pay closing costs to process the loan, you don’t have to worry about keeping a balance or paying the account off early.

However, it does pay to check. So before you sign for your refi, ask about any fees included. Late fees should be expected. Early payment fees can usually be deleted from the contract by paying a fee upfront.

While refinancing can save you money, it is important to shop around for the right lender. Ask about their rates and terms. Request loan quotes and compare to other lenders. Time spent researching financing options is an investment that will pay off for years to come.


